# The Final Test

1. Social scientist Viktoria Cologna at Leibniz University Hannover, Germany, and her colleagues surveyed 71,417 people in 67 countries. In most places, the researchers recruited participants online through marketing companies, with the exception of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where they used in-person surveys. Respondents were asked to indicate how much they agreed with a dozen statements about the integrity, competency, benevolence and openness of scientists, on a scale of 1 to 5. A higher score indicated higher trust.
2. The study also explored the links between participants’ trust in scientists and their political leanings. At the global level, a ‘left-leaning’ political orientation was linked to higher trust. The team saw this association at the country level in Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Norway and China. But out of the 67 countries surveyed, in 41 — including New Zealand, Argentina and Mexico — the team found no significant association between political orientation and trust. And in some countries, including Georgia, Egypt, the Philippines, Nigeria and Greece, left-leaning views were linked to lower trust.
3. NASA is interested in the Moon’s south pole because of the water and other volatile substances that might be frozen in the lunar soil and shadowy craters there: not only could these hold clues to the Solar System’s history, but they might also one day be used as fuel for rockets and other equipment. If Odysseus lands successfully, it would mark the first US visit to this region (India’s Chandrayaan-3 mission achieved a soft-landing there last year). “It will give us an opportunity to test our instruments in this very harsh environment where the Sun is always low on the horizon,” says Susan Lederer, a CLPS project scientist at NASA’s Johnson Space Center in Houston.
4. A target cut of 90% is not as ambitious as some headlines suggest. The EU’s existing policies could reduce emissions by 88% by 2040, according to its own projections. This would be achieved mainly through phasing out coal, converting most fossil-fuel power to renewable sources such as solar, wind and tidal energy, and electrifying transport. There will still be emissions from some vehicles on the road, from shipping and from aviation. Some oil and gas power will also be in use. The commission is, therefore, proposing to accelerate technologies, such as carbon capture and storage (CCS), that can take up some of those remaining emissions and store the gases, possibly underground.
5. “Despite all the attacks, despite all the lies about Tom Suozzi and the Squad, about Tom Suozzi being the godfather of the migrant crisis, about ‘Sanctuary Suozzi,’ despite the dirty tricks, despite the vaunted Nassau County Republican machine – we won!” he declared to cheers from the crowd at an upscale wedding venue in Woodbury, New York. Democrats’ takeover of a GOP-held swing seat at once narrows Republicans’ already slim majority in the House, and provides a much-needed jolt of momentum for the party in the White House.
6. The Democratic Party had understandably hoped to capitalize on the existing embarrassment of Santos’ scandal-plagued term with a special-election win that could generate forward momentum ahead of a November election beset by concerns about Biden’s standing. Making a dent in Republicans’ wall of support in Long Island, where suburban voters have galloped to the right since 2020 in defiance of national trends, was as sure a way to do it as any.
7. Cheese is probably something you always have on hand. But if you’re lax about taking stock of what’s in your fridge, you might notice white or green fuzz growing on it when you reach for it. Mold and cheese have an important relationship that begins long before it hits the store shelves, but it can be tricky for the casual cheese eater to grasp. Mold plays a role in cheesemaking, but you can’t always see it. And some molds you see are safe to eat, while others are best avoided. Still, it can be unsettling to see moldy blemishes appear on your cheese, especially if they weren’t there when you bought it. How you handle these instances depends on the type of cheese you’re dealing with. Food safety and cheese experts explain what you should know about mold and cheese.
8. Sarah Roberts, a makeup artist and founder of the Beauty Edit, says that L'Oreal Paris Infallible Pro-Matte Foundation is "one of my absolute favorites and an essential staple in my kit. Its long-wearing matte finish delivers flawlessness across nearly all skin types." Roberts also praises the foundation's range of shades, ease of use, and "outstanding performance in diverse settings," including high humidity. According to Roberts, this product "rivals many luxury foundations because its quality and finish are comparable to those costing three times as much.”
9. I'm very happy that songwriters have found Writing Better Lyrics helpful, and
I'm grateful to be writing an introduction to a second edition. It's been a while
since the first publication in 1995, and I've learned a lot since then, thanks to my
students at Berklee College of Music and the many songwriters I've met and
worked with both in my traveling seminars and my online courses. Each time I
teach, I learn something new from them — a real blessing in my life to be on
such a journey. The chapters on verse development add examples and new material,
introducing the concept of “boxes,” which students over the years have found
helpful. I think you will, too.
10. Remember this fundamental fact: You are absolutely unique. There never was,
is not now, nor ever can be anyone exactly like you. The proof lies in the vaults
of your senses, where you have been storing your sense memories all your life.
They have come cascading in through your senses, randomly and mostly
unnoticed, sinking to the bottom. Learn to dive for them. When you recover one,
when you rise with it to the surface and hold it aloft, you will not only surprise
your onlookers, you will surprise yourself.
11. I must have been four. Memories from that time are a rare species —
lobbing in like huge bumblebees on transparent wings, buzzing old
Remington shavers torn free from those thick and brittle wires tangled
in webs under our porch where I loved to crawl and hide; black
snaking wires disappearing up through floors and humming into wall
and socket. I still hear them.
I hid under the back porch, smell of damp summer earth cool under
my hands, ducking, scrunching my shoulders tight to avoid the rusty
nails waiting patiently above for my back or skull to forget them. The
tingling along my back and neck kept reminding me, don't stand up.
Under the back porch, a place tinged with danger and smelling of
earth, the air tastes faintly of mold and hollyhocks twining around the
trellises that I see only the bottoms of, speckled gold by the shafts of
sun slipping through high elm branches in the backyard, weaving
shadows like Grandma's lace dresser doilies. When I squint, I can blur
the sunlight into a bridge of green-gold. Crouching there fetal and
content, I could feel Mom above me, could hear her high heels tap-tapping.
12. Object writing works best when you do it for ten minutes, first thing in the
morning. Yes, I know — I'm brain-dead then, too. But you can always find ten
minutes just by getting up a tad earlier, and the effort will pay huge dividends.
Two beings inhabit your body: you, who stumbles groggily to the coffeepot to
start another day, and the writer in you, who could remain blissfully asleep and
unaware for days, months, even years as you go on about your business. If your
writer is anything like mine, “lazy,” even “slug” is too kind. Always wake up
your writer early, so you can spend the day together. It's amazing the fun the two
of you can have watching the world go by. Your writer will be active beside you,
sniffing and tasting, snooping for metaphors. It's like writing all day without
moving your fingers.
If, instead, you waited until evening to wake your writer up, you'd float
through the day alone, missing the wonderful worlds your writer sees. Old
lazybones, meanwhile, would get up late and retire early.
13. Loyalty forget it. There's no reason to stay loyal to the object that sets you on your path.
Your senses are driving the bus — you can go wherever they take you. The
object you begin with might only be your starting point. Full right turns or leaps
to other places are not only allowed, but encouraged. Think of it as sense-bound
free association. If you try to stay focused on the object you start with for the
whole time, you may get bored with object writing after a few weeks. Let your
hot morning shower with its rolling steam take you to thick clouds hanging
overhead, to the taste of rain, to stomping through a puddle, splashing water up
so it sprays like fireworks, to the boom in your chest and the smell of gunpowder
and the taste of cotton candy.
14. Puddle on the ground where the water will not drain between the
sidewalk and the asphalt just a geometric stain, a water world, an
escapee from the underworld of the storm drain where all is subsumed
in a soup beneath the cast-iron teeth stamped with names like Chicago
or Pittsburgh or St. Louis rusty and heavy and smelling of rotting
leaves and piggy banks and cool damp cement. Sounds of
underground torrents or secret creeks or gentle plunking like
stalactites forming, depending on how much rain came down. But this
little triangular puddle will never make it to the ocean, will never join
the great descent to the Mississippi. Puddle of mosquito sex and
gasoline rainbow and pollen scum brown and yellow, a tiny pond in
the evolutionary gene pool, the very shallow end, it will be gone
tomorrow. Evaporation, the Great Destroyer, will sneak in like a nurse
with arsenic, unnoticed until it is too late. For you, not the muddy
rolling wonder of Mark Twain, but the sky and the slow rising steam
and clouds you are going to heaven, little puddle.
15. I can see the reflections of the pines above in the sandy water.
Scattered around the pavement like a minefield, I hop over each one
in my new canvas shoes. A sweet smell of apple blossoms drifts
through the neighborhood, and I hear Mr. Clemens revving up his
lawn mower for the first mow of the season. My coarse nylon
overcoat blocks the chill of the morning, but as I hop puddles, I feel
the skin on my neck and back cool with sweat collecting under my
cotton T-shirt. My gum has turned metallic — Mom says I always
chew it too long. I don't mind. My jaw needs something to do now
that the neighbor girl moved away and I don't have anyone to play
with. The mailbox at the end of the drive gets closer every year as I
inch upward, and it surprises me how quickly I'm able to pry open the
rusty hinge and retrieve the mail. The mail truck always leaves tire
grooves in the gravel that pools with muddy spring rain. I feel my
rubber soles sink and suction to the natural concrete, and a shiver
springs through my fingers as I consider the gravity of the situation.
Carefully, I lift the weight onto my other foot and douse the bottoms
in an overflowing pothole. Mom won't like too much that I've
smudged my new shoes when I wasn't even supposed to be wearing
them. I glance back down the main road and catch the glint of sunlight
off a car just round the bend. A wheezing grind and then a steady
hum, seems he's gotten that old mower going again.
16. Coarse black pepper darkening the salmon filet, tamari and lemon and
bake for ten minutes, still rare, wet with the sea to slide easily down
my throat, singing its flavor all the way. Deep green water, diving,
feeling the pull in the pit of his stomach — a leaning toward the far
waters of home, shallow riverbed of his birth, eagles littering the
treetops for miles awaiting the feast. Surging up the falls, against the
current, leaping and shaking, rainbows of water droplets spilling of
his polished skin, the bodies of his companions already torn open,
flayed, fallen to bear, fox, and eagle. The dust of home, the smell of
the big ditch behind Grandma's house and I exhale, shoulders relaxed,
head clearing. The smell of home waters, the sound of grasshoppers
winging from cornstalk to cornstalk, the smell of Carnation Instant Milk in the kitchen
17. Peppers shiny and red, oily and waxy little Christmas tree lights on all
the pepper plants. So hot out here there is steam rising from the dark
beds like fog off blacktop, but this heat is a perfume, chocolate brown
soft soil smell everywhere, dead leaves wet and warm, new leaves
light and crisp and lemony. Smell sweat and damp leather work
gloves muddy canvas sneakers smell the peppers in the heavy air
sharp tangy don't rub your eyes if you've been picking cause that
shiny oil gets on your fingers and goes right into your skin. Smooth
firm little teardrops plunking into my cardboard box as it gets hotter
and closer and the buzzing little bugs zit round my ears. Moving
irrigation pipe with the big men with the soft worn work boots the
color of clay, the color of toast. Then later the dirt under my nails
down in the cuticles down in the fingerprint and it won't come out. To
have really beautiful hands, like the debs in the who's who columns
holding crystal flutes like tender shoots, means to do nothing with
them. The girls with the pretty fingers do nothing. I have been digging
in the dirt all day making things grow and my hands look
18. The best way to do group object writing is face to face. Gillian Welch had a
group in Nashville that met for two and a half years, every Sunday afternoon
from one to four. They'd warm up with a five-minute exercise and read their
results to each other. The best writing of the round would set the bar for the next
round. Then another five-minute warm-up. Read. Everyone dives a little deeper.
Then ten minutes. Read. One more ten. Read. Then a ninety-second piece
(suggested by Kami Lyle — I call it a Kami-kazi: you really approach it in a
different way). Read. Then another five minutes to decompress from diving so
deep. Read. And a break for munchies and conversation. After the break, they go
back for one more ten minutes, then one for ninety seconds, and then one for
five minutes before ending their weekly “object writing party.” Welch says that
object writing was one of the most important keys to her success — and she's
had seven Grammy nominations, with three wins.
19. People watching is full of interesting possibilities. Ask yourself questions:
Does she play golf? When did she learn? What was his favorite game when he
was little? Of course, you'll be drawing on your own experiences as you answer
your questions. And always stay close to your senses. Specifics. Sense images.
I also recommend this kind of storytelling when hanging out with other
writers. You might even make a special trip to the mall or the airport to exercise
your powers of observation. (I call it “the airport game.”) As somebody passes
you, ask your friend a question: Who did he take to his junior prom? Does she
get along with her younger sister? Take turns asking questions.
“When” can be seasonal — “across the morning sky, all the birds are
leaving.” It can be a time of day — “midnight at the oasis.” Or it can be a special
occasion — “chestnuts roasting on an open fire.” Play around with it. There's
lots of stimulation available here. Try writing five minutes on “summer
morning” or “dusk.” Maybe “Christmas party” or “Thanks-giving dinner.”
Watch the ideas tumble out.
“Where” can be anywhere. That's its strength. The Wailing Wall, 42nd Street,
a lake cabin, the Grand Canyon, a mountain path, the backseat of the school bus.
The opportunities are endless.
Even “how” may be useful. “Forging a sword” or “learning to ride a bike,” for
example.
“Why” seems like it's more for telling. Maybe you can come up with a few
ideas here.
20. Metaphors are not user-friendly. They are difficult to find and difficult to use
well. Unfortunately, metaphors are a mainstay of good lyric writing —
indeed, of most creative writing. From total snores like “break my heart” and
“feel the emptiness inside” to awakening shocks like “the arc of a love affair”
(Paul Simon), “feather canyons” (Joni Mitchell), “soul with no leak at the seam”
(Peter Gabriel), and “brut and charisma poured from the shadow” (Steely Dan),
metaphors support lyrics like bones. The trick is to know how to build them.
In its most basic form, a metaphor is a collision between ideas that don't
belong together. It jams them together and leaves us to struggle with the
consequences. For example, an army is a rabid wolf.
We watch the soldiers begin to snarl, grow snouts, and foam at the teeth. The
army disappears, and we are left to face something red-eyed and dangerous. Of
course, an army isn't a wolf. All metaphors must be literally false. If the things
we identify are the same (e.g., a house is a dwelling place), there is no metaphor,
only definition. Conflict is essential for metaphor. Put things that don't belong
together in the same room and watch the friction: dog with wind; torture with
car; cloud with river.
